docs: fal-model-paths for Python models (#586)
fal-ai/fal: docsite/docs/Docs/fal-cli/python-models.md

sidebar_position: 2
---

# Creating fal Python models

With version `0.4.0`, fal supports a new building block: _Pure Python models_. This type of model allows you to represent a `dbt` model purely in Python code leveraging its rich ecosystem of libraries. With Python models, you can build:

1. Data transformations that Python is better suited for. (e.g. text manipulation, leveraging external Python modules)
2. ML model artifacts (like predictions) as dbt models, using Data Science libraries such as `sklearn` and `xgboost`.

From version `0.7.0` onwards, to start using fal Python models, add a dbt variable `fal-models-paths` with a list of directories/folders in which to look for Python models.
Think of it like [`model-paths` of dbt](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/project-configs/model-paths), but for fal.

> This folder **must** not be in the dbt `model-paths` because dbt now supports Python models natively for some adapters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This folder **must** not be in the dbt `model-paths` directory because [dbt has now added](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/python-models) its own implementation of Python models natively for some adapters.
```

Author: check it out
